# Replication Package for "The Impact of IR-based Classifier Configuration on the Performance and the Effort of Bug Localization of Method-Level Bug Localization" (Under Review)

Abstract: IR-based bug localization techniques assist developers in locating buggy source code entities based on the content of a bug report. Prior bug localization research makes extensive use of Information Retrieval (IR) classifiers. However, such IR-based classifiers have various parameters that can be configured differently (e.g., the choice of entity representation). Recent research has shown that the choice of a classifier configuration impacts the performance of classifiers that are used to locate bugs at the file-level. Moreover, our recent work has shown that locating buggy source code entities at the method-level requires less effort than at the file-level. However, little is known about the impact that the choice of a classifier configuration has on classifiers that are used to locate bugs at the method-level. In this paper, we investigate the impact that the choice of the IR-based classifier configuration has on the top-k performance and the required effort to examine source code entities before locating a bug at the method level. Moreover, we also analyze the classifier sensitivity to parameter value changes. In total, we explore a large space of classifier configurations 3,172 configurations. Through a case study of 5,266 bug reports of two software systems (i.e., Eclipse and Mozilla), we find that (1) the choice of classifier configuration impacts the top-k performance from 0.44% to 36% and the required effort from 4,395 to 50,000 LOC, suggesting that using inappropriate configurations could result in poor top-k performance and wasted effort; (2) classifier configurations with similar top-k performance might require different efforts, suggesting that practitioners should take into consideration the required effort to locate bugs while comparing the performance of classifier configurations using top-k metrics; (3) VSM achieves both the best top-k performance and the least required effort for method-level bug localization; (4) the likelihood of randomly picking a configuration that performs within 20% of the best top-k classifier configuration is on average 5.4% and that of the least effort is on average 1%, suggesting that finding the best configuration is difficult; and (5) configurations related to the entity representation of the analyzed data have the most impact on both the top-k performance and the required effort, suggesting that practitioners would benefit of guidance on which configuration parameters matter the most.

## Data and Scripts
You can download the latest version [here](https://github.com/SAILResearch/replication-ist_bug_localization/releases/latest)
